ok ladies and gentleman thanks for for
attending a session today my name is
Benjamin Fineman I'm a senior product
manager in the in the quick time group
and I focus on mobile media delivery
solutions today we're going to split our
time into two presentations one from
Erickson Eugene's army and so he's going
to take you through a little bit more
detail the components of their mobile
delivery solution and talk a little bit
about how Apple integrates into that and
then we have dr. David Gerard from Boyd
Telecom which is a major European
operator that we've been working with on
video services and he's going to take
you through what it takes to create and
deliver content from the operators
perspective at the end we'll do just a
little bit of QA so I'd like to invite
up Eugene the clicker is now yours all
right good afternoon everybody
my name is Eugene Samantha's been
mentioned earlier I'm a product
marketing manager as well but mainly
focusing on Erickson's content download
and streaming solution how many of you
here were in yesterday's presentation ok
so a lot of you were there so I just to
give me information on whether I'll
repeat some slides because I expected a
different set of audience but in any
case I mean what I'll be going through
today is first to go through again some
opportunities that we see in wireless
media but this time going specifically
into customer cases where we've seen
successful download or streaming media
services after that I'm going to go
through the challenges operators and
Ericsson and what challenges we see in
the mobile media space and finally I'm
going to go through success cases where
we have helped operators launch
streaming services
both in Europe and in Asia so I'll start
off with my first slide which defines
what is mobile media because this
basically lays the foundation of what
I'll be talking about in the next few
slides well the way the solution from
Ericsson answers mobile media today is
that it's services involving delivery of
video audio and speech content through
Wireless bearers now that Wireless bear
could be CDMA technologies could be
wireless LAN technologies could be GSM
and wideband CDMA technologies and why
we've isolated to this is because we do
have other sets of platforms or
solutions that cover media such as MMS
such as SMS such as instant messaging
which which is what I believe is more a
peer-to-peer type of service so mobile
media in the way I'm going to talk about
it about it today is streaming and
download of video content audio content
and speech content so now we see an
evolution of networks on the wireless
side and we have two g networks and 3G
networks and what we see is that as the
bitrate capabilities increase in the
existing mobile networks the amount of
services that we provide over these
networks steadily evolved and also
increase in functionality so if we
originally just had voice okay and SMS
and simple ringtones we're now moving
into polyphony polyphonic ringtones
we're looking at MMS with music some
video downloads and Sauvage some java
applications and as we move further into
3G bit rates then you know we'll be
looking at music with high quality high
fidelity sound we have not just
ringtones but actually master tones
which is the original version of that
of the of the clip it where it was taken
from and then we're looking at packet
switched and circuits which streaming so
just you know this is just gives you an
idea of where we're headed and in terms
of opportunities that we see in this
space okay according to Business Wire
right this is on the fixed side there
was seven point eight P 7 billion
streams in 2003 that's a hundred percent
increase from 2002 or the year earlier
and we see that same expansion or growth
going down this is also going to happen
in the wireless space and just also from
another analyst its strategy analyst
they see that in 2008 over 150 mobile
users will be there will be viewing
video content and video services
generating 4.6 billion dollars so this
is one of the analysts some are saying
six billion some are saying a bit higher
some are saying a bit lower but there's
basically a lot of revenue to be made in
the wireless media space okay now to
give you an example of what or which
operators are actually mature in
Wireless media I have two examples one
from Japan where they have launched a
lot of 3G handsets they're going to
increase their subscriber base by
six-fold and one of the operators they
there which is NTT DoCoMo they launched
a service called M stage visual which we
which subscribers pay for on a monthly
fee and they also charge for a
transmission transmission charge so the
monthly fee is $1 one point eight
dollars to access all the content in
their portals and the transmission
charge is roughly fourteen cents per
minute of data also in the same region
we have South Korea Telecom who is also
earning a lot
money on on mobile media they're earning
an average of seven point five u.s.
dollars on top of their existing revenue
because of the streaming and download
capabilities in their network and what
you can see here is that they have a
video on demand service with 400
channels and top three types of content
that people look for is TV content adult
content and music content but you know
these are just normal content that you
pick off of TV this is probably the
highlights of let's say a football match
or highlights of certain things so it's
compelling content it was surprising for
the CBO to see that people want to view
TV on a mobile phone and this is just an
example of what all the other operators
around the world could be you know this
could be their situation in the future
okay now apart from the opportunities
Ericsson has also done its own Studies
on what services subscribers would like
in the mobile media space so we surveyed
40,000 people around the world in 11
countries actually and this was done by
a internal group called ConsumerLab
which just looks into user behavior and
user statistics and specifically for
streaming and download of video content
what they found out was there's three
main categories that people look for
it's the music category the news and the
sports categories and before I say
anything else I just like to say that
this three main content types
were chosen by the early adopters and
these early adopters represented 40% of
the total population so if there was
forty thousand respondents 40% of them
were early adopters for streaming
technology and out of that 40% there was
15 percent who said I'm not going to pay
for this okay one thing that you would
see
15% of the early adopters for streaming
wanted just music news 21% wanted just
news sports said 11% wanted just sports
and then you have the combinations of
music and news 10% sports and news 9%
and music and sports 4% and then there's
other types of content and so it gives
us insight on what we should promote
towards operators that they should focus
on these three main categories one also
important thing to note is none of the
respondents said we want games only they
wanted games with music games with
sports but not music not games only and
they are this just tells us that when we
come up to an operator promoting our
end-to-end solution we always tend to
focus on these three content types or
bringing in partners for these three
content types
okay also from that study we try to find
out what sort of revenue potentials we
could have I didn't put the actual
figures there in terms of currency
amounts because then we could always
argue if it's big or not but what we saw
was how does it impact its the existing
voice revenue that the operator is
earning well there's very little
cannibalization and what people are
saying is that if I am offered a new
service a music service and a sports
service I'm willing to double my
spending on the data services that I get
and so that's that's another important
reason why Ericsson is heavily investing
in mobile media mobile media solutions
okay yesterday I talked about our role
and talked about how what we want to do
with the application developers again
our role is to develop the end-to-end
solution person-to-person applicate as
solutions and applications a person
salute
we also want to try to bridge the gap
between the media industry and the
mobile industry and we've been asking
Apple and asking a lot of partners to
help us do that
and I think slowly we're getting there
then of course we want to address the
content aggregator space bringing in
content providers application developers
towards the operators this is a repeat
of yesterday so I won't really focus on
this so in the end-to-end chain from
creation of the content to the actual
delivery to the handset what are we
doing in these different processes or
different stages of the delivery of
content from the content creation side
as I said we have mobility world we have
partners we create packages of
applications that we match towards
operators so if we approach for example
a company called Amina in Spain the way
we approach them is we have a mobile
mobile mobility world representative and
he says these are the things that we
have a thousand different things pick
and choose from them or which ones or we
give them also information about how
these services are if they're successful
in other markets why they're successful
what sort of revenues the potential and
business case would these applications
have and how it would impact their
network so from that side we have
mobility world as well as the tools that
we sell with our solution to enable
operators to create content on their own
or resell that content or actually buy
content from content providers on the
other side from the terminals the
activities that we mainly do is testing
IOT testing with our own handsets as
well as all the other handsets from
Nokia from Motorola from neck
and the rest of the terminal suppliers
across the globe so we do support for
that now our main offering an our main
car well actually our core competence in
Ericsson is delivery it's integration
and is the wireless network okay and
that's why we focus on that in terms of
transport we make sure that our
platforms have the features and
functionality that inter work with the
core network and radio network that the
quality of service is maintained end to
end between the handset the range of
eight stations the range of base
stations connected to our our switches
and then the switches connected to our
streaming solutions okay so we not only
address the features on the product
itself but we also develop features on
the radio and core side
apart from that we do integrate or we
focus on business logic the product that
we sell focuses on the business logic
that will allow operators to charge to
provision and manage the different nodes
that we're introducing because this is
where we're coming from this is where
Erickson's competencies we've been
building mobile mobile network
technology and integrating this for more
than 100 years so this is why we're
focusing on this area okay so knowing
our role and our function in the
end-to-end chain
what's the challenges we see and what
challenges do operators see and I think
my colleague from week we'll be
discussing their their views as well but
in our point of view there's four main
areas that are challenges in delivering
mobile media content first for and
foremost it's having the right content
in the right applications in operator
networks it's still not that easy to
find that killer content okay
then there's the handsets to know the
problem of making sure that every single
content
is delivered to handsets and commend
those handsets can decode and play the
different formats that are available in
operators networks but apart from that
we also look at entering integration
alright let's say I have that I have the
content out and my partners are set I
have the handsets ready next thing that
the operator asks for or the next thing
that is asked for is how do i integrate
the solution how do I make sure that the
billing interfaces are are set that the
prepaid interfaces are set how about my
integration to customer care how about
my integration to network management and
finally of course there's how should I
charge for this and this is still an
unknown area for a lot of operators
there's so many ways you can charge for
this it could be subscription-based
event based it could be volume based it
could be category based it could be one
time free one-time fee or it could be
combined with LMS could be combined with
voice oh there's so many things that
could be of could be possible to on a
way to charge for this and that is a
challenge because this will actually
make or break the service right so
what's our solution what's Ericsson
solution for this well basically we have
come up with a solution an end-to-end
solution that addresses or aims to
address all the content all the relevant
formats all the relevant protocols
connecting that content to the handsets
or the devices that will receive that
content and what we've done is in
Ericsson or what we focused in Ericsson
is a development of a network
integration node and what that does of
course is do the integration aspects
that basically develop features that
bring about our core competencies and
what it does is it allows us to have
streaming services now it could be a Sun
streaming server or it could be a
QuickTime streaming server
what we want to be what we want the
system to be is agnostic to extremist
server or streaming platform because we
want to address the content space so if
an operator says I want this type of
codec and this other streaming server
provides it then we put that in and I
think QuickTime is is really helping us
there in terms of the new protocols that
they're supporting and 264 is coming up
so it could be it could happen that you
know operators will start asking for
that and we will deliver it with that we
do also provide content upload for for
the content providers content storage
rating for that content and a subscriber
database to hold the information about
which services that subscribers want ok
apart from that I'd like to explain to
you how our solution which is ETDs fits
into the radio network and the core
network the way it works today is we
have both support for both circuit
switch and packet switch which is a
quite a key strength because a lot of
existing solutions today only address
the packet switch space this is more
wireless technology infrastructure so
you have your radio base stations
connected to controllers controllers
connected to gateways and then finally
it's an on the internet or within the
operators walled garden and then we have
integration to content creation content
management HLR and targeting systems ok
so I told you that one of the challenges
is integration and that's why we focus
on that we make sure that we have
integration points to the billing
gateways we have integration points to
network management system so when we
talk about network management systems it
could be HP openview it could be compact
Kamath anything with smtp
us or SNMP support ok we have
integration points towards a triple a
server where basic
we get the IP to MSI's the end mapping
this is important because on the
wireless network you need to find out
what MSISDN is so that you can charge
for it so it's like that if you look at
it from the web perspective it's your
key to access streaming services okay
apart from that we're looking into
integration with or creating functions
for MMS okay integration to that and big
is a video interactive gateway which
allows us to have circuits which
services okay on the encoder side we do
sell products based on QuickTime and we
do promote QuickTime based encoders like
the Final Cut Pro and a QuickTime Pro is
it yeah QuickTime Pro but we do have
also other partners that we package
along with our solution ok now let's
let's say we address the integration
part how did we address the application
part and how do we make sure that
there's enough applications out of the
handsets well we have a mobility world
program where we focus on making sure
that developers have the ability to
create then after the creation process
we take those applications verify it in
our test labs make sure that it's tested
properly it integrates with operator
networks and then we go to market with
that okay from the developers site we
have WWE Ericsson comm slash mobility
world and there you'll have all the SDKs
not just for streaming and download
services but you have api's and SDKs for
location-based based information for
parler services which is voice related
and there's also SDKs on how you know
you can push SMS so basically anything
with regard to mobile network
technologies and providing applications
on that you can find the development
tools there we have support services
forums and we of course have success
stories of certain application providers
who have
made it big with us okay on the verify
side we try to as much since we packaged
applications and services towards
operators we need to make sure that it's
tested very well because basically we do
first line support for those
applications and the first thing the
operator says is Ericsson why doesn't
your application work so we need to do
very stringent tests on these
applications and we do that through a
process and we have a lot of things that
we look into in the testing process
after the testing and verification then
we go to the market and there's roughly
30 centers worldwide where we have
mobile sorry mobility world
representatives and these mobility world
representatives the only thing they do
is sell applications they go to each
operator and ask them what do you want
where your service is headed how can we
help you and that allows you as
application developer to push your
content without actually having the the
manpower do you know to fly across all
the go so we do the front-end for you
okay on the terminal side
we're heavily relying on the standard as
is Apple and we've been drivers for the
packets we switch streaming standard for
a while now during the times when it was
three or four years ago when I was
trying to sell streaming solutions but a
lot of the streaming solutions were
proprietary there is a proprietary codec
from guys from Seattle quiet codec from
this guy and there's like four solutions
all proprietary and we couldn't live
with that as Ericsson being a driver for
standards and being a driver for GSM we
needed to make sure that there is a
standard way to trance transfer these
files
and encode these files and we did that
through the packets which streaming
standard so what came out of that is you
a prof information which basically
allows you to find out the terminal
capabilities of the phones that you sent
that you send content to or is
retrieving content from you there is a
specific standard on DRM but it's very
limited it took them a day and a half to
hack it and now it's it's not that
difficult to hack that so and then for
the codecs
we have AMR narrow band wideband AAC
which is the next-generation mp3 h.263
and mpeg-4 h.264 is coming in r6 we have
scalable polyphony MIDI and as you can
see all the things that Apple has been
working with RTSP RTP SDP these are
things that is in the standard as well
okay apart from that we have for scene
description smile 2.0 and for text and
images we have a following okay
you can get it get this off of the 3gpp
site so that ww3 GTP's org and you know
you can get the latest information of
what's happening in the standards okay
so that's addressing the terminal space
so I think now I'll focus mainly on what
we've done and with other customers or
some of our customers I'll focus on
three because the rest we actually have
roughly 15 customers but I can't really
disclose them to you but I have three
samples that I will be discussing all
right so we have mobile in Slovenia they
were first customer actually and they
started launching their services in 2003
and in terms of services they you know
listened to us and put news put sports
and put music content there apart from
that they had their own thinking of
putting a lot of adult content which is
really taking up their
I don't know why but they also have live
TV and in their launch during less than
two weeks since the introduction they
had a hundred thousand clicks to various
erotic content well we'll see maybe
that's the way forward for this but
there was a lot of interest in special
special weather programs where people
were stripping though and there was a
lot of services around that now
basically what happened is after they
launched after a year of launch they
were able to penetrate 40,000 percent of
their subscribers so that's quite a
quick penetration rate I mean that's
that's one of the best they have
actually in their span of launching
services and right now they have roughly
four hundred forty five thousand users
they are growing at eight thousand per
month so they could reach one hundred
pretty soon in terms of content
providers we have given them some
content providers and we've given them
support and providing them with the
content that they're looking for okay so
we have discussions now ongoing with
Sony Music and MTV another operator that
we worked with is a menace pain they
have been very good supporters of
Ericsson and they launched services such
as TV programs from Canal+ and they have
also music sports cinema and fashion
content in terms of content providers
there is a group of priests a-- which is
a media company in in spain and the way
they charge for this is basically one
thing that i missed on the other slide
was charging alright the way they charge
for these services is they charge on the
time the person is is browsing content
so it's time-based for a menace spain
they charge on time-based charging as
well and there's no specific charge but
they're now looking into
support and once that happens I think
then they'll go into the broad base
because if you look at Europe it's
mainly prepaid subscribers they're okay
then there's telefnica they launched in
december 23 2003 they launched almost
the same time as a manner because you're
competing with one another and they have
the same set of services they have
Spanish TV channels and in terms of
charging they do have prepaid support
today and we did that for them so apart
from the success that they have with the
service we've you know what I haven't
really said here is the integration that
we've done integration into fault
management systems integration into
their content management systems and
we've been very successful in quickly
deploying that actually we had one
customer where they wanted to launch
within a month and we were able to
deliver actually it took took us one
week to install two weeks to integrate
well that was one of our best times and
to integrating a platform for one of our
operators and the price levels for
californica is 1 euro per video
ok another important customer that we
have is sunrise and the difference with
this one is we provide them with the
hosting service so they don't have
anything we provide everything from the
platform the streaming servers and the
applications and we aggregate that
content for them they only pay us for
usage basically and this has been very
successful they launched in July 2003
we've used a lot of the mobility world
partners EMW garrix and mobility world
partners they price per clip that's the
difference with the rest of my previous
example so they price per clip and they
also have subscriptions for groups of
content so you pay a subscription fee
let's say HBO content and then premium
prices for
the clips we recently launched with them
EMU's which is a music service and this
music service allows subscribers to look
into let's say Britney Spears website
and find out latest information about
her her ringtones her music and also you
know ask for MMS content that they know
they can show their friends and we had
the in in Asia last year a slogan which
is make money by making people famous
because you know how operators will make
money is if they can make the
subscribers famous with their friends oh
look I have the latest football goal in
year 2004 by let's say Portugal or maybe
here if it's the San Francisco Giants
then here's the latest tackle all right
summary there is a lot of opportunities
and it's happening now it didn't happen
as much last year but this year we see a
lot of positive results both with our
operators and with operators have
launched streaming and download services
Ericsson wants to be your business
partner and we want to take you to our
operators and we would like you to join
us in Erickson's mobility world program
the link is there if you need to get
contacts just please approach me and be
part of the mobile and media convergence
thank you
[Applause]
Thank You Jean for an excellent
presentation so coming up next we've got
dr. David Gerard who's going to now talk
about a similar topic but from the
perspective of an operator so with that
I'll hand over the clicker
my name is death doesn't move he doesn't
change I work in the department of new
technologies at become it's a French
operator I make I will make a brief
presentation in it in a moment the topic
of this presentation is video services
of a mobile network and here are the
different aspects I will I will deal
with first I will speak about my company
because we are a small operator and it's
interesting to know why we are making
video right now I would talk a little
bit about a mode but my colleague in
next time shot we have a deeper
presentation of it I see I think so I
will be rapid I will also talk about the
network constraints and the type of
networks we are operating and also the
answers because it is one of the most
limiting device to deploy video and then
I will go deeper into the subject that
is I will present two simple services
that are launched to this video mail and
the other nodes and as a conclusion I
will make some talk about shooter trends
both in the content aspects auto and car
the content and the transport problems
how will the transports evolves in the
future and that will be all
so brick they come in the previous slide
there was the way to pronounce it it was
very difficult for Nancy Tina for
American so the network started in 1996
we have 6 million subscribers it's
approximately 18% market share in France
and we are operating gsm/gprs network we
have a national wide coverage
for both technologies and since we are
only friends operator we have a lot of
roaming agreement around the world that
makes us possible to have access to
remote services while we are being here
in the States so it's quite important
for us we we intend to evolve our
network in 2005 we are making some
service tests in France with edge
technology which is a very important
evolution for us because we will from
one day to the other again national wide
coverage as a position to 3G networks
that are most of the time operate on
spots and which edge we will gain a
fourth all the throughput so very
interesting to have bigger files to
download for instance in 2002 we
launched the I mode i mode is internet
for the mobile mobile phones but in a
simple way in a simpler way than for
instance WAP because it's reuse
protocols and protocols existing for the
web so many is HTTP based and it uses
the email instead of MMS one particular
idea of it is that the operators specify
completely the services and also the
phone functionalities that is way with
other operators we exactly define the
layout of the phone's functionalities as
inside the keyboard everything so that
the users exactly know from an economic
point of view are to operate this phone
which is not always the case with very
sophisticated phones the idea behind
that is to make it very simple for
everyone to produce the services so far
we have mostly 10% of our clients that
have shifted to I mode since we we
launched it and finally well that is the
topic of the presentation we we launched
with this one we launched a video
services end of my pleasure
so balcony mode in a few words it is a
technology that is licensed from NTT
DoCoMo we deployed it in 2000 in Japan
it is licensed to I think approximately
10 operators worldwide mostly in Europe
and one in Australia
it has 42 million users so it's quite
important
well maybe 40 millions in Japan but it's
increasing overseas ok and I think there
is a problem with the slide something
that comes again concerning the network
for packet data we use G ferries and
that is we have throughputs in the range
of 40 gigabit per second is in the
downlink and 20 feet per second in the
uplink it is a best default network that
is well if you don't have any radio
resource then you you have to wait a
little bit and most of that you will see
after you also have the fact that that
voice may be pre-emptive over data that
is that if you know a lot of people want
to place phone calls then you you have
to wait for your content and sets is the
big limitation today most of the
generation set supports three are three
plus one that is they can support 30
kilo bits down income 10 in the uplink
it's a little less than the theoretical
throughput arrival for the emergent sets
we specified that they should support
3gp file format that is for the video
they use h.263 and mpeg-4 video codecs
in resolution exclusive sis
guys 176 by 144 pixels for QC and for
the audio we use to codecs
one dedicated to voice which is a IMR
that comes from the GSM world and the
other one which is AC
they come from aisel MV we have a very
very simple data protection for one look
that's very simple but still very
efficient because we specified the phone
in a manner that the the content can go
outside the phone so even that very weak
protection is a is enough to continue
the content provided to be confident in
the technology and from from the
recording point of view we we are phone
with equipped with camera so that we can
send a video as a attachment to email so
if we look at the there are two
constraints when you when you design
video clips for mobile phones one
constraint is the time the people have
to wait before they can show it see the
clip that is if I go on to website I
click on the URL for the clip if I wait
more than 30 seconds then I don't wait
more than 30 seconds I could we made
some test two years ago and that was a
conclusion for 90% of the users when we
combine this constraint with the fact
that we have a very limited throughput
and the network we end up with the
constraint on the file size that is
approximately hundred kilobytes and if
you look at the table then you can see
that the download duration time on edge
is approximately between 20 30 seconds
and the Opera duration is more important
it's 80 seconds one thing interesting to
see is that the phones today are not
operated by a multitask operating system
so when I download a clip from the web
from from the website well I wait but I
can't do anything else if I sent an
email with a video attachment it is the
same problem so from a user perspective
it's very problematic and we have to
find some solution and
one solution is you increase the
bandwidth so you go to edge and then you
have shorter upload download time and
that is the the way we're going to we
also have a problem with video quality
because if we have very small files if
we want to have a a duration acceptable
there is in the range of 15-20 seconds
to give the users a piece of information
that's not only a still image then we
can't have video video bitrate very high
we are in the range between 32 to 64
kilobits per seconds I will show you
later on what is the type of quality
that we can have on very very hard
content that is on football games for
instance if we look at video mail
services it's a service very intuitive
because it's like an email you just you
just shoot video with your phone and
then you open the email email client on
the phone you put the end video as an
attachment and you sent it so very very
clever very simple or if you are just a
physician to do so is the video a video
that you downloaded from the web is not
a lot then you can forward it to to
sominex
i said i Mahdi's reuse some technologies
existing on the web so what is good with
that is that you can address any email
on the web so almost everybody and also
you can raise some mms recipient if you
are the left one number there is in fact
that get away into the network that
makes some translation between the email
format and the and the enemies on the
recipient on a recipient side well you
could have different case if it is
inside the name own network then is very
easy to is no problem
if we talk to an OMS client that's what
I talked about and if you talk to
someone on a PC on six network then you
can show you can look at the video using
a friend
and quicktime which is very easy to get
the video download is the other service
so it's a HTTP download it has a little
over read during the transportation so
we have to think about that when we when
we look at how to charge the the content
and it's very important because the user
space for the photo for transport here I
put different captures in order to to
show you the steps the idea is when I
when I go onto the I mode portal there
is a maybe I'll show you in a moment
there is a touch on the keypad and
keypad if you press it you just go on to
the website and this is the the portal
you see and left and then it's very very
similar to a web navigation so I'm going
to show you a video clip if we can
switch to the camera
don't know if we can good light a little
down
I will play it again before making some
comments so as I mentioned there is a
fixed okay good you can see the length
of the video here well it's a little
better on the on the screen of the phone
because there is degradation in the
process but there you can see the size
while you have duration of about 12
seconds it's a video clip encoded at 64
kilobits per second and there is no
audio on it so that gives you an idea of
the kind of quality you can have that
type of content is very hard to encode
because well with the brass with a lot
of tiny details there is a lot of moving
objects there is a lot of players and
also some small objects like by the ball
so you end up in having that type of
quality could we switch back to the
other place
okay so if we look at how all that is
charged we have an iPod something very
simple well at least in the beginning it
was very simple but it's a very hard to
live with it while it evolves it is
simple in the fact that we which has one
one sent by kilobyte so if you just make
email that's right because an email is
something in the in the kilobyte range
to Africa device and when you start to
download files that are in the range of
100 petabytes then it makes you
something like a gyro or a dollar which
is approximately the same for a video
and starts to be really expensive and on
top of that the economic model that the
content provider want to use is the same
as the window as the ringtone economic
model that is they want to charge for a
number of video you just subscribe for a
month and during that month you could
get a number of video and at the moment
it's in the range of two to five videos
so I will talk little bit about content
content creation and some consequences
of the file sizes we have since since it
is very limited then we we need to work
on the video and well it's not our job
that we we have to have the content
providers to to work on that the story
about this is in a mode we have content
providers coming from a reasons that are
very different from the from video where
people are making newspapers where are
people selling ringtones and all of a
sudden they want to put some video on
their websites and we have to tell them
or if you want to do so you have to use
such tools you have to you follow such
rules and what we have to define those
words so video sequence must be very
simple that is not not too many thinkers
there might be a contradiction with the
kind of
trailers that we can see where
everything is going very fast and Indian
you you don't see anything if you can
call it right away we have to also
optimize the sound the sound is
something very to which the user is very
sensitive in fact if if you put two
videos with some tracks and other the
different qualities then although they
are the same the users will prefer the
one with the best soundtrack so we have
to live with that on there are some
contents for instance if you have the
news then someone is speaking you can
use without any problem or voice codec
but if you have someone singing if I
start to sing right now if I want to
encode that then if I use my marker
delve into the end of the world because
there will be some glitches in the
soundtrack and it's unacceptable so we
also have to define how to turn cut that
and to do so we we have the H II codec
which also requires a higher bitrate so
there is a compromise between the the
amount of data that you put into the
audio on the amount of data you are in
the video for the digital write
management there are several ways to do
it at the moment the only tool that we
we have to create content and to have
the protection is a quick time quick
line Pro that completely supports the
file format defined by NTT DoCoMo and
well it can be seen as a limitation for
certain content providers but it enables
the the protection if we have a look at
different parameters we can use hey
there is the different profiles
optimized for duration of video quality
and you can see the video quality and
audio
I'm looking for the okay duration is
there so if you want a high quality
video that was the parameter set for the
football sequence then you encore at 64
kilobit per second with 10 to 15 frames
per seconds that number of frame per
second is largely sufficient due to the
definition of the image and you can use
IMR katako
I'm a I'm architects or you can use not
using acrylic if you just want to
emphasize the reaction and then if you
don't mind that much about the video or
if you have something very static like I
don't roll those seconds you can encode
the video at 32 feet per second and you
end up with a duration that is twice the
duration of the high quality video if we
localized works in a quick time well
when you when you export file you have a
source file a clean source file in in
QuickTime and when you export it to
3gp 3gpp file format you have different
tabs in which you can select the the
format of the file so there it's the
mobile impact for it's the format
defined by entity is exactly the same
thing as 3gp except that there is the
DRM on top of it you can define the
definition also the if there is no Geo
Tracker or not and then you specify all
you on call the audio on the video and
it's very very intuitive to to do it so
it's a really nice tool also all that is
what can be done today the services just
known so we don't have any any figures
to provide say where it was where the
users are very satisfied with the
quality till we we are working to define
the service we will happen to the coming
years taking into account the evolution
of the network and that's why I'm
talking about the future trends
one concerning the contents one big need
is the improved non-coding tools
someone yesterday mentioned the fact
that MPEG 2 is now all standard that
improves everyday inefficiency in coding
efficiency mpeg-4 was hit the market
very recently so we we evaluated few
tools and we we have similar results but
we think it could be really improved by
the use of to pass encoding for instance
better analysis of the sequences and
also we think that the encoder the core
of the encoder will also evolve and we
we hope so we hope there will be a lot
of progress down then we can increase
the file size in order to have while
longer clips or to increase the quality
so here there is a trade-off what the
users in the end want and it's not a
very easy question because depending on
how we charge the content what if I
charge 1 euro for 10 seconds of video
and if I continue if I charge 2 euros
for 10 seconds of video but with a file
that is twice the size then maybe the
users although the video quality is
better you won't understand so we really
have a problem of how to charge the
content then what is what you saw on the
phone is a is a fun with the QVGA
resolution so you put a QC content and
cute video you can zoom it you can make
it fullscreen but then you have some
artifacts due to the extrapolation and
one interesting thing would be to
increase the image definition in the 3gp
file if you do that then if you go from
QC to cued video then
the surface of the images double mostly
double it means that if you want to keep
the same quality you have to double the
file size so it's a never-ending problem
whatever your change you have to improve
something so we can look at the encoding
tools we can also look at the codecs
there is the h.264 mpeg-4 AVC that is
being introduced there's been some press
release and so on
we should gain from that 50 50 percent
in the for the same quality we should
get 50 percent but we are waiting
something working for mobile phones
because we have the uncolored problem
and also the availability of colleagues
for the phones and then what another
improvement could be the use of a series
AC place where we could achieve iodo
quality for hostel after bandwidth so
also improvement very we're waiting for
the contents there are two two
revolutions one is progressive download
because as mentioned earlier if if my
file size is too long and if I have to
wait until the end of the file side is
download then maybe that waiting time is
too long for me and I quit so the idea
with progressive download is to start
downloading the file and as soon as the
reason of data into the buffer start
playing it so this improves the user
experience with a click and play exited
plays and it wasn't calling of some
contents with IRB thread and the they
are the available throughput on the
network so that's very interesting if we
want to increase the quality of the
entry then the other way is to look at
streaming for video or on demand or for
large channels it's possible it's
possible today but one limitation is
that if we have one user streaming at 40
kilobits per second yourself
then it might be the only deeper issue
in the cell so it's just wrong
limitation and it will be possible more
easily when edge is deployed and because
of course um there's a problem with that
is we need to introduce new elements in
the network we need to introduce
trimming server or we need to define an
architecture that is that is good both
for us and for the content providers
because there are deep content providers
like TV channels they can host a
streaming server at home there are small
content providers we dub that they will
be able to put the money and the
knowledge into to make the investment of
the money and the knowledge so we have a
big problem and so that is the where the
harmony is also in the range of this is
also the same kind of problem with a big
argument that is often even the argument
is well if you put some streaming if you
have live streaming it is for specific
events like football match that is when
there is a football match you will send
SMS to the users and you say well there
is million has been a goal and what you
expect is that everybody is going to go
to the streaming server and make some
requests and if the dimensioning of the
network is not good then you have a big
problem it doesn't work
so Albany is the is something very very
difficult to resolve one last point is
one of the last point is the
interoperability problem as was wanted
in the previous presentation you can
have you can find a lot of brands of
streaming server that may not be
interoperable between them and we have
to be sure that the day we're on to the
service we don't have any problem with
that because the user won't understand
and last evolution can about the content
is or we charge this when I talk a
little about that so if we increase the
file size then automatically the price
tend to increase with the business model
we have today
another problem might come from the
standard bodies because if you read into
the 3gpp standards then the mpeg-4
profile that is used is limited in the
in bitrate and theoretically we could
not go beyond that betrayed today with
with what we have in the specification
so we we have a problem it it might not
be a problem because with the phone ID
for you you could put video with higher
bitrate so we just could say well we
don't mind except if one day we have a
manufacturer that says that well it was
not in the specification and I can't
support 128 KB per second for content
providers we we have a problem of
compatibility that is if I launch a
terminal today that supports a certain
amount of codecs and one year after I
start to ship h.264 terminals then the
content provider what it will do is they
will say well I have one encoding chain
I will hit my encoding chain to h.264
and for the guys who bought a phone one
year ago then it doesn't work anymore
and we have to deal with that and every
every time we think about the
specification of future phones we keep
that in mind
so also the content creation tools are
important I talked about the increasing
the performance of them there is also
the fact that Auto manage different
profiles for different phones and it has
to be addressed and the last point we we
foresee as a big problem is the VD RM
aspects we there are already a lot of
phones on the market shipping with
memory cards and on those funds while
DRM is not not always and all properly
and we have to be very careful about
that because without any protection
solution there is no no content provider
that follows so those are the the future
trends and difficulties that we will
have to face as operators and also as
providers of solutions for encoding and
terminal solution fences ok thank you
[Applause]
you